And they did not say this about the cauterization except for the quality 
of gold and the highness of its substance; and they said that the iron 
cautery does not cause decay, but this is not true because I have tried 
it, and found that it is true in some men; and gold cauteries are worth 
more than iron ones, just as they say. And yet when you heat a gold 
instrument, you cannot tell if it is hot by the color of the gold, and it 
cools down quickly; and if you heat it too much, it breaks in the fire; 
and thus there are many obstacles. And that's why we use our cauteries 
made of iron, which we have prepared especially for our work.

¶ About the olive-tree cauterization:
This cauterization is good for moistening and cooling on the head, and 
there are two ways to do it because of a disease called "soda", and 
because of many humors that descend from the head to the eyes, and to the 
ears, and for a multitude of dreams and toothache and throat pain, and 
likewise for all diseases that come from cold, such as paralysis and soda 
and apoplexy and similar diseases. The form of this cauterization is that 
the sick person should be purged by medicine that dissolves the head .iii. 
nights or .iiii., according to what the virtues and the age and the habits 
of the sick person can bear; and then make the sick person's head sweat. 

¶ And then have them sit, crossing their hands, and put their hands on 
their knees; afterwards put the root of your palm on the root of their 
nose between their two eyes; and where your thumbs come, let blood flow 
from there, then heat the cauterization called "olivare", whose form is 
this:
And put it on the marked spot with ink, and make a descending and twisting 
motion with your hand little by little in turning; then lift your hand 
suddenly, and look if you see the opening .i. very small; and if you do 
not see it, then restart the cauterization until you see the opening as I 
have told you; afterwards take .i. piece of silk, and put in soft cotton 
inside, and put on the spot, and leave it for .iii. days; afterwards put 
on a moist cloth with butter; and leave it on until the scab is gone; 
afterwards cure the wound from the treatment that is called 
"tetrafarmaçon", until it is healthy. And the ancients said that the 
longer the wound remains open, the more it purges; and therefore it helps 
much.

¶ And some of them say that one should leave the cauterization so long 
that part of the opening is burned, and then scrape off what is burned 
from the opening, and be cured.
¶ And others say that one should leave the cauterization on for a long 
time, and press hard so that the humors come out as much as .i. large veil 
that women put in their hair to let the humors out; and one should leave 
the wound open for a long time; afterwards it should be cured and dried.
¶ And these two ways of cauterization do not seem entirely good to me, 
except in some men where there is room for fear; and it seems to me that I 
should leave it; because the head is weakened by continuous natural 
solutions, as we demonstrate in other members; and likewise when the head 
of the sick person is weak by nature, and the first appearance of 
cauterization is more healthy and gentle for me, and this is what I use in 
my work, seeking health.